[Music]
you're stuck outside in the frozen
wilderness with no way to get back to
town
no one to call for help and hunted by
unseen snipers
you'll freeze to death if you don't
escape and time is running out
what do you do it's a worst case
scenario that pits you against frozen
lakes blizzards
and an enemy who won't stop hunting you
i'm going to break down the mistakes
made what you should do
in how to beat the hunters and red dots
this unhappy swedish couple is holding
on to a dark unknown secret
and it's tearing them apart all david
here wants to do is play video games to
forget his problems while his wife nadia
is left cleaning up after his mess
she's also several weeks pregnant but
the only person she's told is her
friendly neighbor thomas
she finds out her husband has arranged
an unexpected hiking trip in bear valley
and she's excited to go
it's a chance for them to escape their
troubles but they have no idea what
they're about to get themselves into
okay we don't exactly know what their
secret is but these two clearly have
some
serious emotional baggage there's
nothing worse than being trapped in a
bad relationship
and unresolved trauma can turn two
people against each other it doesn't
look like much but we're going to find
out later what these two are hiding and
boy is it ugly they stop at a gas
station where these hunters show up
there's something off about these guys
and even the dog can tell
he makes a creepy comment about nadia
and there's blood leaking from the back
of his truck
it's not too strange since this area in
sweden is popular for hunting but david
here
doesn't like the vibes as he's pulling
out he accidentally hits the hunter's
car but instead of taking responsibility
they drive away without even leaving a
note
what a dick this is extremely
short-sighted and he should have owned
up to it for two reasons
firstly anyone with blood dripping from
their trunk is not someone you want to
piss off
if you already think the guy is creepy
then giving him a reason to hate you is
just about the dumbest thing you can do
here and could easily backfire
also many gas stations have security
cameras that would have captured both
the incident and your license plate
secondly by law every swedish driver
must have car insurance
and the dent is pretty small so his
insurance could have easily sorted it
out
this tells us a lot about the kind of
people they are driving away shows a
real lack of character and their bad
decisions will catch up with them later
on
they stop at the local lane where they
have a reservation for the night
as they're checking in he spots those
two guys from the gas station across the
room and they look rightfully pissed off
the man gives them a map of a hiking
trail and even offers to let them stay
at his cottage but then warns them to be
very careful on their trip
the cold nights of sweden are no joke
and things can go terribly wrong
out in the wilderness if they don't
stick together alright he's not kidding
the winters in this part of the world
can reach -30 degrees celsius
if you're stranded without proper
shelter in this climate frostbite and
hypothermia can set it fast and when the
human body's temperature drops below 28
degrees celsius you would lose motor
dexterity within minutes
become unconscious in less than 15
minutes and die within less than 45
minutes
for this reason i would be listening to
the local weather forecast before going
out
the next morning they get ready for
their drive to bear valley but find
scratches on their car
and a racial slur written on the back it
looks like revenge for the run-in at the
gas station and on their way to the
hiking trail they pass by the hunter's
truck but she just can't let it go
she gets out to scratch the [ __ ] out of
his truck that's when the hunter comes
out with a dog who chases her back to
the car
she slams the door which injures the dog
and they speed away once again
now it might feel good to get even but
there's no evidence here that the
hunters wrote this on their car
we've just dramatically escalated this
feud and now they'll be looking for an
opportunity to retaliate
this leaves us super vulnerable if we're
hiking in the wilderness because there's
no one around out there to witness
anything
these guys are proper hunters so it's
not exactly a fair fight if things
escalate any further the safest thing to
do is return home
call off the holiday and reflect on your
life choices because not being a
terrible person goes a long way here
park in the car they head up to the
mountains and set camp right under the
northern lights
nadi here decides to tell david she's
pregnant and he's overjoyed but
something is wrong they see a strange
red dot hovering across from them and
realize someone outside
is shining a laser on the tent wall they
go outside to look for the source but
there's no one around for miles
suddenly it appears again but this time
on nadia's head
officially freaked out they decide to
pack up and leave when something alerts
the dog and he bolts outside before they
can stop him
then a gunshot rings out and a bullet
flies through their lamp
taking away their only source of light
needless to say this holiday is not
going well
okay there's a lot to unpack here and
they have every reason to freak out
first of all this dog didn't run away
for no reason the only thing that alerts
a dog this quickly without a sound is a
dog whistle that tells me whoever's
doing this
is someone we've met before so it's most
likely the hunters from the gas station
looking for revenge
now this sniper's aim is seriously on
point and if he wanted them dead
they would be so these might just be
scare tactics but he's also made a
mistake here because we can use the
laser to triangulate the position
of the sniper from the light falloff in
the snow we can figure out that the
sniper is in this direction
and this changes everything because now
we can figure out the best direction to
run it
needless to say running back into the
tent is a terrible idea
one of the most effective anti-sniper
tactics in the military is to rush the
sniper and close in on him to force him
out of his position so if we're able to
close that distance quickly with zig zag
movements we've become much harder for
him to kill
the problem with this is that it's a
military strategy for soldiers trained
in combat and the most experience this
guy has in combat is playing battlefield
on his playstation
just because it's the best tactic
doesn't mean it's the best decision
the most logical thing to do here is
look for the nearest slope to get out of
the sniper's line of fire
the terrain here is pretty flat but any
curvature of the land will still help
shield us
because there are no high points around
for the sniper to perch from they run
for cover into the night but a flare
goes off overhead
spotlights appear in the distance as
they hear the sound of an engine
speeding towards them
luckily they find a wooded area to hide
it but they have to stop when nadia
here starts wincing in pain david
realizes the sounds of the vehicles are
getting closer and he hurries them out
of there and hide inside an abandoned
building until morning
okay they're lucky to find shelter but
staying here is the frozen wilderness
equivalent of hiding under the bed it's
just way too
obvious and the hunters will find them
we should check the map the innkeeper
gave us
and see if there are any buildings
marked down i would head for the
innkeeper's cottage as it's most likely
closest and might have a landline to
call for rescue
but assuming we can find it it's not
going to help us if we lead the hunters
straight there
the best option is to create a
distraction to lead them away from our
direction
if the dog didn't run off i'd consider
tying him up and leaving him here as the
barking will attract the hunters and buy
us more time as we stay on the move
it sounds terrible but it's a calculated
risk these hunters might want to make us
suffer but they also had a dog that they
took good care of and anyone who takes
good care of their dogs like this would
be very unlikely to hurt someone else's
it's the next day but they don't have a
lot of time to escape they didn't bring
their outer layer coach with them from
the tent so they're more vulnerable to
the weather than before
nadia here wants to go back to the car
but david points out that the keys and
phones are at the tent
and since neither of them know how to
hotwire a car they need to go back to
their camp
going back to the campsite is the worst
idea in the world the hunters are behind
you and following your trail and you'll
either run into them or you'll run
straight into a trap
this couple has no survival skills and
they can't google for directions right
now so their only option is to stay on
the run
back at the campsite david here decides
to check out the tent while nadia stays
back for safety but she sees him
suddenly come out and vomit
she runs up and he warns her not to look
inside but she doesn't listen
and sees the decapitated head of their
dog and everything's been stolen
it's horrific he gets her to calm down
and goes back inside to look for the
keys
he moves the dog's head to check under
the sleeping bag and his arm gets caught
in a bear trap
nadia here pries the trap off and helps
treat the wound binding it with an
improvised cast
okay i'm starting to think this has
nothing to do with a scratched car
because this is way too extreme up until
this point nobody's been hurt but now
it's turned into a legitimate death
scenario
these people don't want to just scare us
they want to kill us and it tells me
every aspect of this is by design
but there's one thing that can't be
controlled and that's the weather
this thick fog is actually a blessing in
disguise because the sniper won't have a
clear line of sight unless you're
already too close for him to shoot
now if we had the same disadvantage
getting back to the car would be too
difficult so i would take this
opportunity to look for the hunters
it's dangerous but so is weight in the
mount and when so much of the situation
has been controlled by them it's the
last thing they would ever expect
they follow their own tracks from the
camp and try to find their way back but
they're completely lost
in the distance someone is watching them
and he starts shooting at them they try
to make it to these trees for cover but
the guy suddenly realizes this shooter
has to reload after
every single shot just when i thought
they couldn't be any dumber he does
something like this and totally redeems
himself
he recognized the firing pattern of the
gun from none other than battlefield
he's also completely right but he should
have known this from the beginning
because we saw the gun in the hunter's
truck at the gas station
it's a remington 700 rifle which is a
single action five round gun with one in
the chamber
now if we knew how many bolts the gun
holds i would count the shots and wait
until he has to reload the magazine
this lets us run from cover at the
safest possible moment now once again
the fog gives us an opportunity here to
rush him if they both split up and
started running at him in a zigzag
pattern
he'll be delayed reloading and they
might have a chance to jump him but
personally
i wouldn't do this because i don't want
any risk of getting shot a wound like
that puts an end to this whole cat of
mouse game because you'll be too weak to
run from them
and the blood will be easily tracked the
best strategy here is to take this
opportunity to let him see you running
into the fog in one direction and then
change
course he'll have to rely on his
tracking abilities alone which are
likely quite good but when nature gives
you an advantage you have to take it
the couple wait until the hunter fires
his gun and they run for the trees while
he's reloading
david here gets shot in the shoulder and
falls but nadia keeps running and leaves
him behind
he sees the shooter approaching and
quickly gets out to follow after his
wife
she realizes her husband is missing and
calls out for him she can barely see
anything in this fog but she hears the
ground suddenly crack
she realizes she's standing on thin ice
her husband responds to her call and
runs blindly onto the frozen lake
she warns him to be careful but as he
walks over he falls through the lake's
surface
she crawls over to help him up but he
sinks into the water she dunks her head
in to find him but he's gone
she's about to give up but then she sees
bubbles come up to the surface and she
grabs him
pulling him out of the hole he's half
drowned and freezing to death but at
least he's still alive
okay this one is unfortunately not going
to end well for either of them
and she's not going about this the right
way realistically at these temperatures
with no means to warm yourself quickly
you'd be dead
this is [ __ ] dangerous because the
body will go into cold shock response
after two to three minutes which makes
you involuntarily gasped
even while you're underwater the irony
here is that you would die by drowning
instead of from the cold
if you want that one chance of surviving
this keep your head above the water and
try to get yourself back on the ice
now even this can be very difficult
because the ice around the hole will
easily break
that was also her mistake because she
could have easily fallen in after him
from the breaking ice
to escape the water you'll need to use
your elbows and move yourself out as
horizontally as possible to distribute
the weight more evenly across the ice
if you're lucky enough to get out you'll
need to take off all your clothes
because the soaked water actually makes
it colder than being in just
your tidy whities they can't make a fire
because it will attract the hunters and
they don't have the time or the tools to
do it
so the only chance is to rub warmth into
the body the limbs will feel colder
because they are thinner and the brain's
instinct is rub them first but the best
thing to do here is to rub the chest to
protect and warm the heart
the smarter thing to do here for
survival is to leave him for dead
it's so brutal but if he's already
fallen in he will need immediate medical
care when he escapes and she won't be
able to help him
now to be fair i wouldn't leave my
partner behind either i try everything i
could but it's only going to decrease
your chances of surviving
they find an abandoned cabin and take
shelter inside renadia here discovers a
lot of useful things
including a phone that she uses to call
for mountain rescue unfortunately they
can't come until the storm clears so she
makes use of her time
stitching her husband's wound and checks
to make sure she hasn't lost her baby
she's relieved to hear that it's still
alive after everything they've been
through
now these guys have been extremely lucky
they found shelter when they needed it
most giving time for the husband to
recover
but turning on all these lights here is
just about the dumbest thing you can
possibly do
their one advantage was the fog of the
winter storm but these lights will cut
through that
leading the hunters straight to the only
place keeping this man alive
they even have a lit candle by the
window which is so stupid
these lines aren't enough to keep the
husband warm so they serve no benefit
even without any lights i still would
have tried covering the windows so
nobody would know we were inside
now this guy still has to recover and
that's going to be really difficult to
do without heat
technically speaking it's possible to
override your own autonomic nervous
system to control your own body
temperature with meditation and
breathing exercises
wim hof proved this by climbing to a 6.7
kilometer altitude on mount everest
wearing nothing but shorts and stains
submerged in an ice bath for two hours
all without letting his body temperature
fall below 37 degrees celsius
but this takes a lot of training to pull
off and something tells me this guy
isn't quite the meditative type
i would blind all the windows and
consider lighting the fireplace but only
if i could use one of these blankets to
pitch a tent to block the light
then i'd have to lie down inside the
tent next to the fire the smoke from the
chimney would not be seen because
there's already a fog
the smell will only travel in the
direction the wind takes it which gives
us a reasonable chance that the hunters
won't catch the scent
the next morning they hear a snowmobile
approaching and see the mountain rescuer
that was sent to help
is actually one of the hunters from the
gas station they climb out a window
before the man can find them and try to
go for the snowmobile but he comes out
of the cabin and with no other choice
they run back into the woods okay
something about this
is very very wrong if this is one of the
guys that's been hunting us he wouldn't
call out to announce his presence
he also wouldn't come in without his gun
raised and ready to fire
this changes everything about what we
think is happening here because if those
two hunters from the gas station aren't
haunting us down
then who is now this could also be a
trap and we can't know for sure until we
got control of the situation
so i wouldn't announce my presence
without making sure i had the upper hand
this couple actually got one thing right
here after everything they've been
through they would be way too weak to
take this guy down physically
when your body is experiencing
hypothermia it's losing more heat than
it can produce
and you also lose coordination and
strength because the blood moves away
from the limbs and towards the heart
but there's still a way to take control
of the situation there were a lot of
useful things in this house other than
this phone
and one of them was this rocket flare
now these things can do pretty serious
damage and at the very least are an
excellent distraction
i would have wanted to wait until he
opened the door and fire the flare to
his chest and take him by surprise
we can then rush at the man without
needing to overpower him and take his
gun and the keys to the snowmobile to
get the f
out of here also given that he's part of
the rescue service he might have a
satellite phone or a walkie-talkie we
can use to get in contact with more help
as they run away from the cabin the
husband starts having intense
hallucinations and collapses
nadia checks the map and discovers that
the innkeeper's cottage is relatively
close
she makes sure he can continue before
they set off in that direction
i gotta say this would have been a good
thing to do a lot earlier
they've been wandering for days and
don't have a compass so this map is a
lot less useful now than it would have
been earlier at the mountaintop
now there's still a way for them to
figure out their cardinal direction to
make sure they start walking the right
way
in the northern hemisphere moss will
usually grow on the northern side of
trees due to the sun's positioning in
the sky
and from there you can figure out the
remaining directions if you can't find
any moss however
there's another approach you can use
stand a 3 foot long stick into the
ground and place a rock at the tip of
the stick's shadow
then wait 15 minutes and place a second
rock at the tip of the shadow's new
position
if you face away from the stick and look
between the two rocks you'll find
true north they continue trekking until
they spot the inkeeper's cottage but the
husband's hallucinations are getting out
of control
and he's haunted by this kid in a yellow
jacket he's breaking down
and doesn't have the strength to
continue so the wife goes to scout alone
and sees an abandoned snowmobile
the other hunter finds her and he's
confused by how scared she is of him but
he doesn't have long to think about it
as david here bashes the man's head in
with a rock
they run away and take the hunter's
snowmobile to the innkeeper's cabin
okay this guy's reaction to nadia here
confirms that none of this has anything
to do with a scratched car
he didn't seem to understand what was
going on and that means his couple might
have just killed their best chance to
escape
if they had just spoken to the guy he
would have helped them but instead they
stoned him
i guess communication is not one of
their strong suits but neither is
critical thinking
they took his snowmobile but left his
gun sitting there in the snow
they have absolutely nothing to defend
themselves with and when they manage to
find one they leave it behind
they walk inside the cottage but that's
when the innkeeper comes downstairs
surprised to see them he quickly goes to
call the ambulance but the wife
overhears him talking on the phone
to someone else she doesn't trust him
and tries to leave but the innkeeper
holds them up at knife point
she then notices a wall of photos of her
and her husband and among those photos
is a picture of a little boy behind them
their neighbor tomas enters the room and
surprises them both
that's when their dark unknown secret is
finally revealed years ago they ran over
a kid on their way to stockholm and they
never told anyone about it
they didn't even bother to call for an
ambulance and that little boy was
tomas's son
who found out it was them and has been
stalking the couple until he had the
perfect plan for revenge
he was the one who set up this bear
valley trip and now he's going to finish
this
he orders them to get on their knees and
he knocks nadia out
she wakes up tied to a chair and sees
her husband holding a drill
he tells david that he wants to drill
into his wife's belly to kill the baby
because they killed his son
and threatens to shoot his wife if he
doesn't comply david raises the drill up
to her stomach but he can't go through
with it
so he shoots him in the leg alright if
tomas here created this elaborate chap
going to have him tortured and killed
inside a house
that he's not being smart about any of
this there's going to be way too much
evidence to clean up and he hasn't even
set up a proper kill room with plastic
sheets to be cleaned easily without
leaving a bloody mess
if he wants to kill them without getting
caught it's better to force them back
out and tie them up so they die of
hypothermia and if any evidence surfaces
it will look like they were just caught
in the weather
the neighbor puts his gun to her head
and is about to shoot her but the other
hunter comes in
he's confused and demands to know what
they're doing thomas here panics and
shoots at him but accidentally kills the
innkeeper
the neighbor goes into attack mode and
david here uses that opportunity to set
his wife free
okay when people show up like this it's
a distraction and you have to take
advantage of it if you want any chance
of escaping
you don't need to understand the
situation simply rush this guy and take
him out
now he has a gun but you also have a
pretty powerful weapon and that's your
teeth
the average human can bite down with
over 150 pounds of force per square inch
so the best thing to do here is to
immediately take advantage of the
distraction and bite him right in the
juggler vein on the neck
you'll be able to rip through the flesh
deep enough to severely wound him and
he'll have to recover giving you time to
escape from the house
they run out of the cottage and head to
the snowmobile but they can't get it to
work and when they hear another gunshot
go off inside
they run back into the woods the husband
falls to the ground and is too injured
to continue
he tells his wife she needs to leave him
and she sprints out of there but trips
on the dead hunter's body
and thankfully his rifle is still next
to his corpse
the neighbor demands to know where his
wife is and that's when she comes to the
rescue
their neighbor puts his gun down but
thomas starts to smile and
something is wrong here suddenly she's
shot down by an unseen sniper
and this woman walks out she's the
neighbor's wife and the second person
hunting them down now i get it when
people are actually faced with the
reality of ending someone's life
you're likely going to hesitate but even
still this was the worst way to go about
it
if it were me i'd be more worried about
reaching them in time and as soon as i
saw the neighbor i would have fired at
him to stop him from shooting david here
this would save him more quickly and the
neighbor would be forced to run for
cover
it would also guarantee that the wife
wouldn't sneak up on her and kill her
david here begs to be killed but they
wanted to live with the pain
he's finally gotten revenge for his
son's death and leaves the man alone
with the cooling corpse of his wife
nearby
what do you think how would you beat red
dot let me know with a comment down
below
thank you so much for watching leave a
like and subscribe and check out the how
to be playlist
for more videos like this until next
time have a damn good day